# Essay Rubric
Directions: Your essay will be graded based on this rubric. Consequently, use this rubric as a guide when writing your essay and check it again before you submit your essay.

Focus & Details

4: There is one clear, well-focused topic. Main ideas are clear and well supported by detailed and accurate information.
3: There is one clear, well-focused topic. Main ideas are clear but not well supported by detailed information.
2: There is one topic. Main ideas are somewhat clear.
1: The topic and main ideas are not clear.
Organization

4: The introduction is inviting, states the main topic, and provides an overview of the paper. Information is relevant and presented in a logical order. The conclusion is strong.
3: The introduction states the main topic and provides an overview of the paper. A conclusion is included.
2: The introduction states the main topic. A conclusion is included.
1: There is no clear introduction, structure, or conclusion.
Voice

4: The author's purpose of writing is very clear, and there is strong evidence of attention to audience. The author's extensive knowledge and/or experience with the topic is evident.
3: The author's purpose of writing is somewhat clear, and there is some evidence of attention to audience. The author's knowledge and/or experience with the topic is evident.
2: The author's purpose of writing is somewhat clear, and there is some evidence of attention to audience. The author's knowledge and/or experience with the topic is limited.
1: The author's purpose of writing is unclear.
Word Choice

4: The author uses vivid words and phrases. The choice and placement of words seems accurate, natural, and not forced.
3: The author uses vivid words and phrases. The choice and placement of words is inaccurate at times and/or seems overdone.
2: The author uses words that communicate clearly, but the writing lacks variety.
1: The writer uses a limited vocabulary. Jargon or clichés may be present and detract from the meaning.
Sentence Structure, Grammar, Mechanics, & Spelling

4: All sentences are well constructed and have varied structure and length. The author makes no errors in grammar, mechanics, and/or spelling.
3: Most sentences are well constructed and have varied structure and length. The author makes a few errors in grammar, mechanics, and/or spelling, but they do not interfere with understanding.
2: Most sentences are well constructed, but they have a similar structure and/or length. The author makes several errors in grammar, mechanics, and/or spelling that interfere with understanding.
1: Sentences sound awkward, are distractingly repetitive, or are difficult to understand. The author makes numerous errors in grammar, mechanics, and/or spelling that interfere with understanding.